# Karjera

### [Don't Call Yourself A Programmer, And Other Career Advice](https://www.kalzumeus.com/2011/10/28/dont-call-yourself-a-programmer/)

* “What is your previous salary?” is employer-speak for “Please give me reasons to pay you less money.”
* Peter Drucker came up with the terms Profit Center and Cost Center. Profit Centers are the part of an organization that bring in the bacon: partners at law firms, sales at enterprise software companies, “masters of the universe” on Wall Street, etc etc. Cost Centers are, well, everybody else. Engineers in particular are usually very highly paid Cost Centers. This is what brings us wonderful ideas like outsourcing. Nobody ever outsources Profit Centers. **You really want to be attached to Profit Centers** because it will bring you higher wages, more respect, and greater opportunities for everything of value to you. If you want to work there, work for that. If you can’t, either a\) work elsewhere or b\) engineer your transfer after joining the company.
* Producing beautiful software is not a goal. Solving complex technical problems is not a goal. Writing bug-free code is not a goal. Using sexy programming languages is not a goal. Remember you’re selling the solution to a business need - raise revenue or decrease costs, rather than programming skill or your beautiful face. Those are your only goals. Don't call yourself a programmer, instead describe yourself by what you have accomplished for previously employers vis-a-vis increasing revenues or reducing costs. If you have not had the opportunity to do this yet, describe things which suggest you have the ability to increase revenue or reduce costs, or ideas to do so. The dominant quality which gets you jobs is the ability to give people the perception that you will create value. This is not necessarily coextensive with ability to create value.
* People who are skilled in negotiation make more than those who are not. Negotiate aggressively with appropriate confidence, like the ethical professional you are.
* You radically overestimate the average skill of the competition because of the crowd you hang around with. 
* Most jobs are never available publicly, just like most worthwhile candidates are not available publicly. Information about the position travels at approximately the speed of beer, sometimes lubricated by email.
* There are other benefits like “free soda”, “catered lunches”, “free programming books”, etc. These are social signals more than anything else. When I say that I’m going to buy you soda, that says a specific thing about how I run my workplace, who I expect to work for me, and how I expect to treat them. \(It says “I like to move the behavior of unsophisticated young engineers by making this job seem fun by buying 20 cent cans of soda, saving myself tens of thousands in compensation while simultaneously encouraging them to ruin their health.”

